Flair Pro 2.md, before:

#coffee #espresso

Takes 25 minutes total
- grind, assemble, pull, clean up
# Checklist
- Needs to be bolted
- Pre heat portafilter
- Pour water on rim of brew head
	- no bubbles
	- Water appears clean
- Brew head takes max 84gm water
	- 18:54 is max ratio
- Coffee needs to be really finely ground
	- [[Comandante C40 MK4]]
		- 6 to 7 clicks
	- Timemore C2 Max 
		- 9 clicks at least
		- 9 minutes to grind medium dark
	- Blue Tokai's "Espresso Grind (Commercial)" is not enough

# Pressure Profile
For now use [what Lance Hedrick suggests](https://youtu.be/rC36en6zo_U?si=aXEAN44fvA8ovrVF):
- Pre-Infusion: 
	- 2 bars
	- hold for 10-15 seconds
	- filter bottom should saturate, not drip too much
- Infusion: 
	- Slam to ramp up to 8 bars
	- hold till flow reaches fastest speed
- Taper
	- slowly and gradually
	- keeping eye on yield/ratio
	- 8 to 0 bars

See [[Pressure Profiles]]

# Dialing in
See [[Espresso Compass]]
## Grind
[[Comandante C40 MK4]] without [[Red Clix]] in the range of 6 to 8

Process of discovering the sweet spot grind size on your grinder between
- too coarse where the shot is too fast
- too fine where the shot gives too much resistance

> [!warning]
> Here, minute steps on the grinder will help. Something like the Red Clix mod for the Comandante is clutch. This is where your grinder will determine the quality of the cup. 
> 
> **This is where espresso will get expensive.**

- finer 
	- less bright
- coarser
	- less bitter

See [[Espresso grind size by roast level]]
## Yield
- Lesser
	- thicker body
	- sweeter than bitter
	- less clarity
- More 
	- thinner body
	- more balance of sour with sweetness
	- more clarity

For lighter roasts, Lance Hedrick (in another video), increased the yield and it kept getting less sour.

> [!tip]
> During extraction, the tastes come out in the following order:
> 1. Sour
> 2. Sweet
> 3. Bitter

So pushing the yield, takes the extraction in the sweet range.

*My theory, ~~untested~~: If you can't take the yield any further, that means your extraction is not going past sour. Then grind finer.*
*Update: This is correct. See "[[Espresso Compass]]".*

## Temperature
Preheat portafilter and brew head. 
Water at boiling. 
## Dose
Increasing dose will increase resistance will increase pressure. 
Irrespective of coarser grind. 
## Pressure
Grind and dose should be such that it sustains 6 to 8 bars of pressure for a few seconds at least. 

# Troubleshooting
## Deluge
- Symptoms:
	- No pressure
	- Brew already starts flowing <4-5 bars
	- Squirts and sprays
	- Watery shot
- Actions:
	- Most likely that the shot is lost
	- Slam the handle to achieve pressure
	- Grind finer
## Drought
- Symptoms:
	- Feel too much resistance at start of pre-infusion
	- Puck is muddy during clean up
- Actions:
	- Back off at 1-2 bars and hold for few seconds till portafilter bottom saturates
	- Then ramp up to 6-9 bars
	- Grind coarser
## Dart
- Symptoms:
	- Expected shot but with sprays
		- Channeling
- Actions:
	- Back off slightly by 1 bar and restore a few times
		- Heals channels
	- Better puck prep 
		- more time with WDT
		- level, even tamp


# References
- [Aramse Coffee](https://youtu.be/f0NPB4ppkxk?si=LzhHBzIElr6P74dO)
- [Brew chamber piston should start out lower](https://youtu.be/zQc9zw7hGtw?si=fBupO5wOcHKMyjyG)
- [Workflow for latte](https://youtu.be/UIcTkVbnqbg?si=ZJKmBKMlStr9D3ne)
- [Lance Hedrick Dial in Light Roast](https://youtu.be/7VeW-_IAFyc?si=v9Qp1hw2RNxmGyN8)
- [Lance Hedrick Pressure profiles](https://youtu.be/rC36en6zo_U?si=aXEAN44fvA8ovrVF)
- [Sprometheus Dialing in](https://youtu.be/naQkW2bla9I?si=6AbadbocYPauVLTb)
- [Espresso Compass](https://youtu.be/KqaVDWXMNUM?si=5d3dQ4ao0hbgybPt)
- reddit for [[Comandante C40 MK4]]
	- [general grind size, no red clix](https://www.reddit.com/r/FlairEspresso/comments/kbh5n3/comment/gfi5pyl)
	- [tuning](https://www.reddit.com/r/Coffee/comments/ghgmbt/comment/fq8uj52)
- [Cliff & Pebble on Dialing In grind size](https://cliffandpebble.com/blogs/our-blog/what-grind-size-for-espresso)
-

Commit message:

espresso natural pressure taper off

Flair Pro 2.md, after:

#coffee #espresso

Takes 25 minutes total
- grind, assemble, pull, clean up
# Checklist
- Needs to be bolted
- Pre heat portafilter
- Pour water on rim of brew head
	- no bubbles
	- Water appears clean
- Brew head takes max 84gm water
	- 18:54 is max ratio
- Coffee needs to be really finely ground
	- [[Comandante C40 MK4]]
		- 6 to 7 clicks
	- Timemore C2 Max 
		- 9 clicks at least
		- 9 minutes to grind medium dark
	- Blue Tokai's "Espresso Grind (Commercial)" is not enough

# Pressure Profile
For now use [what Lance Hedrick suggests](https://youtu.be/rC36en6zo_U?si=aXEAN44fvA8ovrVF):
- Pre-Infusion: 
	- 2 bars
	- hold for 10-15 seconds
	- filter bottom should saturate, not drip too much
- Infusion: 
	- Slam to ramp up to 8 bars
	- hold till flow reaches fastest speed
- Taper
	- slowly and gradually
	- keeping eye on yield/ratio
	- 8 to 0 bars

*Somehow as the water in the brew head recedes, there is a natural taper off of the pressure that can be reached in the brew head. Augment that with additional reduction of pressure.*

See [[Pressure Profiles]]

# Dialing in
See [[Espresso Compass]]
## Grind
[[Comandante C40 MK4]] without [[Red Clix]] in the range of 6 to 8

Process of discovering the sweet spot grind size on your grinder between
- too coarse where the shot is too fast
- too fine where the shot gives too much resistance

> [!warning]
> Here, minute steps on the grinder will help. Something like the Red Clix mod for the Comandante is clutch. This is where your grinder will determine the quality of the cup. 
> 
> **This is where espresso will get expensive.**

- finer 
	- less bright
- coarser
	- less bitter

See [[Espresso grind size by roast level]]
## Yield
- Lesser
	- thicker body
	- sweeter than bitter
	- less clarity
- More 
	- thinner body
	- more balance of sour with sweetness
	- more clarity

For lighter roasts, Lance Hedrick (in another video), increased the yield and it kept getting less sour.

> [!tip]
> During extraction, the tastes come out in the following order:
> 1. Sour
> 2. Sweet
> 3. Bitter

So pushing the yield, takes the extraction in the sweet range.

*My theory, ~~untested~~: If you can't take the yield any further, that means your extraction is not going past sour. Then grind finer.*
*Update: This is correct. See "[[Espresso Compass]]".*

## Temperature
Preheat portafilter and brew head. 
Water at boiling. 
## Dose
Increasing dose will increase resistance will increase pressure. 
Irrespective of coarser grind. 
## Pressure
Grind and dose should be such that it sustains 6 to 8 bars of pressure for a few seconds at least. 

# Troubleshooting
## Deluge
- Symptoms:
	- No pressure
	- Brew already starts flowing <4-5 bars
	- Squirts and sprays
	- Watery shot
- Actions:
	- Most likely that the shot is lost
	- Slam the handle to achieve pressure
	- Grind finer
## Drought
- Symptoms:
	- Feel too much resistance at start of pre-infusion
	- Puck is muddy during clean up
- Actions:
	- Back off at 1-2 bars and hold for few seconds till portafilter bottom saturates
	- Then ramp up to 6-9 bars
	- Grind coarser
## Dart
- Symptoms:
	- Expected shot but with sprays
		- Channeling
- Actions:
	- Back off slightly by 1 bar and restore a few times
		- Heals channels
	- Better puck prep 
		- more time with WDT
		- level, even tamp


# References
- [Aramse Coffee](https://youtu.be/f0NPB4ppkxk?si=LzhHBzIElr6P74dO)
- [Brew chamber piston should start out lower](https://youtu.be/zQc9zw7hGtw?si=fBupO5wOcHKMyjyG)
- [Workflow for latte](https://youtu.be/UIcTkVbnqbg?si=ZJKmBKMlStr9D3ne)
- [Lance Hedrick Dial in Light Roast](https://youtu.be/7VeW-_IAFyc?si=v9Qp1hw2RNxmGyN8)
- [Lance Hedrick Pressure profiles](https://youtu.be/rC36en6zo_U?si=aXEAN44fvA8ovrVF)
- [Sprometheus Dialing in](https://youtu.be/naQkW2bla9I?si=6AbadbocYPauVLTb)
- [Espresso Compass](https://youtu.be/KqaVDWXMNUM?si=5d3dQ4ao0hbgybPt)
- reddit for [[Comandante C40 MK4]]
	- [general grind size, no red clix](https://www.reddit.com/r/FlairEspresso/comments/kbh5n3/comment/gfi5pyl)
	- [tuning](https://www.reddit.com/r/Coffee/comments/ghgmbt/comment/fq8uj52)
- [Cliff & Pebble on Dialing In grind size](https://cliffandpebble.com/blogs/our-blog/what-grind-size-for-espresso)
-
