Salad Routine.md, before:

#recipes 
Takes approximately half-an-hour.
## Shopping List
- Iceberg Lettuce
- Basil leaves
- Cucumber
- Carrot
- Beet root
- Cherry Tomato
- Apple
- Grapes (red flame)
- Orange (Valencia)
- Almonds
- Black Raisins
- Dates
- Feta Cheese
### Storage
- Iceberg Lettuce, Basil Leaves
	- Perforated plastic bag sealed with a clip. Store on the door in a fridge.
- Cucumber, Carrot, Beetroot, Apple, Grapes
	- Paper bag, in fridge
- Cherry Tomato
	- In the plastic boxes it comes in, fridge
- Almond, raisins, Dates
	- Large batches in freezer, batches to use outside in plastic containers
- Feta cheese
	- Plastic container. Access with a fork, avoid touching with hands.

## Preparation
Use a salad spinner to clean all above ingredients in batches of the following...
- Lettuce, Basil
- Cucumber, Carrot, Apple, Orange, Beetroot
- Cherry Tomato, Grapes
- Almonds, Raisin

Start with lettuce and basil leaves first. Spin to dry.
Add to bottom of lunch box.

Carrots and cucumbers. Cleaned and peeled.
For carrot and beetroot, use dicing approach. For cucumbers, use roll-and-peel approach.
Cut in fine julienned.

Apples, scrape-off wax with tip of chef's knife. Slice 3/4 for eating as snack, diced for salad.

Cherry Tomato and Grapes, halved.

Oranges, peeled. Rind and seeds removed. Diced.

Almonds and raisins, halved. Dates julienned.

Feta cheese, broken with fork and sprinkled.

## Dressing
Add to a separate, small glass jar. Shake jar to emulsify.

Olive oil. Honey. 
Chilli flakes. Oregano. 
Salt.
Kasundi or Mustard.
Chopped green chilli, *optional*.

Commit message:

Salad Routine references and additions

Salad Routine.md, after:

#recipes 
Takes approximately half-an-hour.
## Shopping List
- Iceberg Lettuce
- Basil leaves
- Cucumber
- Carrot
- Beet root
- Cherry Tomato
- Apple
- Grapes (red flame)
- Orange (Valencia)
- Almonds
- Black Raisins
- Dates
- Feta Cheese
### Storage
- Iceberg Lettuce, Basil Leaves
	- Perforated plastic bag sealed with a clip. Store on the door in a fridge. Anecdotally, the only way they will stay fresh and crisp without wilting.
- Cucumber, Carrot, Beetroot, Apple, Grapes
	- Paper bag, in fridge
- Cherry Tomato
	- In the plastic boxes it comes in, fridge
- Almond, raisins, Dates
	- Large batches in freezer, batches to use outside in plastic containers
- Feta cheese
	- Plastic container. Access with a fork, avoid touching with hands.

## Preparation
Use a salad spinner to clean all above ingredients in batches of the following...
- Lettuce, Basil
- Cucumber, Carrot, Apple, Orange, Beetroot
- Cherry Tomato, Grapes
- Almonds, Raisin

Start with lettuce and basil leaves first. Spin to dry.
Add to bottom of lunch box.

Carrots and cucumbers. Cleaned and peeled.
For carrot and beetroot, use dicing approach. For cucumbers, use roll-and-peel approach.
Cut in fine julienned.

Apples, scrape-off wax with tip of chef's knife. Slice 3/4 for eating as snack, diced for salad.

Cherry Tomato and Grapes, halved.

Oranges, peeled. Rind and seeds removed. Diced.

Almonds and raisins, halved. Dates julienned.

Feta cheese, broken with fork and sprinkled.

## Dressing
Add to a separate, small glass jar. Shake jar to emulsify.

Olive oil. Honey. 
Chilli flakes. Oregano. 
Salt.
Kasundi or Mustard.
Chopped green chilli, *optional*.

# References
[How to Julienne Carrots](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sYtlIH-YZL4)
[How to roll cut Cucumbers for Sushi](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TVSUS2wmzjM)
