obsidian_vaults/ideas/literature/Atomic Habits by James Clear.md, before:

# Atomic Habits by James Clear
Tags: #habits

# 1st Law make it obvious
Before we learn to create new habits, we need to get a handle on our current ones. 

```ad-quote
Unless you make the unconscious conscious, it will direct your life and you will call it fate. 
```

### Point and Call
 Explicitly call out parts of a process. For example, calling out loud all the things you need to carry when stepping out like keys, phone, etc. 

This forces you to use most of your senses during an action or process. 

Can be used to be aware of your habits and their triggers/cues. Calling out the effects of those habits helps resisting automatic execution of that habit. 

### Habit Score Card 
List down all habits or involuntary actions you take during a routine. For example, actions taken between getting up in the morning and after breakfast. 

Mark them as +, -, = to indicate positive, negative, neutral. 

Habits should not be looked at as positive or negative. All habits serve you, only some solve problems for you. Judge habits on their effectiveness in the long run. 
For example, smoking might calm your nerves immediately but does harm to your lungs in the long run. 

When noticing, observing, and noting down habits:
- no need for self-judgement and internal criticism
- observe as if observing the habits of someone else

### Implementation intention
*How do you intend to implement a particular habit?*

The 2 most common cues for habits: 
- time
- location

> [!formula] 
> *"When situation X arises, I will perform response Y."*

### Clarity about habits
You might think you lack motivation to form a new habit, but it most commonly is a lack of clarity of when and where to take action. We end up vaguely waiting for the *right* time.

> [!formula]
> *I will BEHAVIOUR at TIME in LOCATION.*

Hope can be used as a reason/reminder to take action.

Thru the day, we might say yes to little requests/distractions because we are **not clear enough** what we need to be **doing instead**. Easy to rationalise little exceptions all day when our dreams are vague.

### Habit Stacking
The tendency of one purchase leading to another is called the **Diderot Effect**.

Apart from purchases, you often tend to decide what to do next after what you have just finished.

Find a habit that you are already doing everyday and stack a new behaviour after it. This is called habit stacking. Instead of pairing habit with time or location, you pair it with existing habit.

>[!formula]
*After CURRENT HABIT, I will NEW HABIT.*

Another option is to insert new behaviours in the middle of a habit routine.

Next level will be to develop general habit stacks to guide when a relevant situation occurs.

Considerations:
- the right time: see when you might be most successful with the behaviour. You don't want to practice it when you are likely to be occupied with something else.
- the right frequency: don't stack a new habit you want to be done daily with an existing habit that does not occur daily.

Consider 

# Links

# References
Atomic Habits by James Clear ISBN 978-1-84-794183-1

Commit message:

Atomic Habits merged conflicts on termux on phone, had fun

obsidian_vaults/ideas/literature/Atomic Habits by James Clear.md, after:

# Atomic Habits by James Clear
Tags: #habits

# 1st Law make it obvious
Before we learn to create new habits, we need to get a handle on our current ones. 

```ad-quote
Unless you make the unconscious conscious, it will direct your life and you will call it fate. 
```

### Point and Call
 Explicitly call out parts of a process. For example, calling out loud all the things you need to carry when stepping out like keys, phone, etc. 

This forces you to use most of your senses during an action or process. 

Can be used to be aware of your habits and their triggers/cues. Calling out the effects of those habits helps resisting automatic execution of that habit. 

### Habit Score Card 
List down all habits or involuntary actions you take during a routine. For example, actions taken between getting up in the morning and after breakfast. 

Mark them as +, -, = to indicate positive, negative, neutral. 

Habits should not be looked at as positive or negative". Only judge them on their effectiveness in the long run. For example, smoking might calm your nerves immediately but does harm to your lungs in the long run. 

Habits should not be looked at as positive or negative. All habits serve you, only some solve problems for you. Judge habits on their effectiveness in the long run. 
For example, smoking might calm your nerves immediately but does harm to your lungs in the long run. 

When noticing, observing, and noting down habits:
- no need for self-judgement and internal criticism
- observe as if observing the habits of someone else

### Implementation intention
*How do you intend to implement a particular habit?*

The 2 most common cues for habits: 
- time
- location

> [!formula] 
> *"When situation X arises, I will perform response Y."*

### Clarity about habits
You might think you lack motivation to form a new habit, but it most commonly is a lack of clarity of when and where to take action. We end up vaguely waiting for the *right* time.

> [!formula]
> *I will BEHAVIOUR at TIME in LOCATION.*

Hope can be used as a reason/reminder to take action.

Thru the day, we might say yes to little requests/distractions because we are **not clear enough** what we need to be **doing instead**. Easy to rationalise little exceptions all day when our dreams are vague.

### Habit Stacking
The tendency of one purchase leading to another is called the **Diderot Effect**.

Apart from purchases, you often tend to decide what to do next after what you have just finished.

Find a habit that you are already doing everyday and stack a new behaviour after it. This is called habit stacking. Instead of pairing habit with time or location, you pair it with existing habit.

>[!formula]
*After CURRENT HABIT, I will NEW HABIT.*

Another option is to insert new behaviours in the middle of a habit routine.

Next level will be to develop general habit stacks to guide when a relevant situation occurs.

Considerations:
- the right time: see when you might be most successful with the behaviour. You don't want to practice it when you are likely to be occupied with something else.
- the right frequency: don't stack a new habit you want to be done daily with an existing habit that does not occur daily.

Consider 

# Links

# References
Atomic Habits by James Clear ISBN 978-1-84-794183-1
